@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c %**start of DomoML
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* DomoML::      The XML language created and used inside the application
@end menu

@node DomoML
@chapter DomoML

@section What @emph{domoML} is and what it does

@indicize{domoML} is a subset of the @indicize{XML} language and it used as @keyWord{lingua franca} abstracting the underlying technologies of devices in a way to level out them. In this way devices, functions and interactions inside the @keyWord{domoNet middleware} are represented using an unique representation. It's the standardized language by and towards which translate @indicize{techLanguages} for the proper functioning of the middleware. Infact, all the logical parts of the middeware use @indicize{domoML} and only the physical iterations between real devices and @indicize{techManagers} are in the @indicize{techLanguage}.
@keyWord{domoML} is composed by two sub-languages:

@itemize @bullet
@item @keyWord{domoDevice}: describes and creates the 
abstraction of the devices;
@item @keyWord{domoMessage}: describes iterations from and to devices.
@end itemize

@subsection @keyWord{domoDevice}
The @keyWord{domoDevice} sub-language has the purpose to create a compact, effective, simple and complete way to represent devices abstracting them from the underlining domotic technology.
 
@keyWord{domoDevice} can be represented through a wide and poorly deeper tree. The tree can have maximum four levels: 

@enumerate
@item @indicize{device}: opens the @keyWord{domoDevice} description and gives general informations
about the device as follow:
@itemize @bullet
@item @indicize{description}: a natural language description for the device;
@item @indicize{id}: is a value used for take and generate the @indicize{domoDeviceId}.
It identifies the @keyWord{domoDevice} inside the @keyWord{Web Service};
@item @indicize{manufacturer}: the manufacturer of the device; 
@item @indicize{positionDescription}: a natural language description of the location
of the device.
@item @indicize{serialNumber}: the serial number (it can be composed by letters too) of
the device.
@item @indicize{tech}: the technology of the original device represented;
@item @indicize{type}: the typology of the device;
@item @indicize{URL}: is a value used for take and generate the @indicize{domoDeviceId}.
It identifies the @keyWord{web service} that has the device.
@end itemize

All this fields are optional except for the @keyWord{id}, @keyWord{URL} and @keyWord{tech} attributes
because they permit to identify and use the device.

@item @indicize{service}: describes a service offered of the @keyWord{domoDevice}. This
information is used to create a @keyWord{domoMessage} and to converting it to
a @keyWord{techMessage}.
For each @keyWord{domoDevice} there can be more than one @keyWord{service} tags.
Tags for this are:
@itemize @bullet
@item @indicize{description}: a natural language description for the @indicize{service};
@item @indicize{name}: an identifier that can be useful when a @keyWord{domoMessage} the will be
generated and translated to @keyWord{techMessage};
@item @indicize{output}: the datatype expected as return value when the service is invoked. This attribute must not be placed if no return value is provided. 
@item @indicize{outputDescription}: a natural language description for the @emph{output}
attribute. If no @emph{output} attribute is provided this attribute must not be
placed;
@item @indicize{prettyName}: a label for the service using natural language; 
@end itemize
@item two possible ones tag for this level:
@itemize @bullet
@item @indicize{input}: describes an input for the service. This tag is optional and can be repeated as many times as needed. The attributes for this tag are:
This tag is optional and may have more input.
The fields for this are:
@itemize @minus
@item @indicize{name}: identify the input;
@item @indicize{description}: a description of the input;
@item @indicize{type}: the datatype of the expected input;
@end itemize
@item @indicize{linkedService}: describes an interoperability action. This tag permits to invoke a service of another @keyWord{domoDevice} sharing states. This tag is optional. Its attributes are: 
@itemize @minus
@item @indicize{URL}: the url of the @keyWord{web service} that manages the involved @keyWord{domoDevice} that owns the @indicize{service} to call;
@item @indicize{id}: the identifier inside the specified @keyWord{web service} of the involved @indicize{domoDevice} that owns the @indicize{service} to call;
@item @indicize{service}: the name of the service to tie in the previous characterized @keyWord{domcoDevice} to connect;
@item @indicize{ifInput}: the condition to be verified by the input of the @indicize{service} described. If the input name has value as specified in @keyWord{hasValue} attribute, the service of the involved @indicize{domoDevice} is called;
@item @indicize{hasValue}: used with @keyWord{ifInput} attribute. It specifies the value to be matched in order to call the service of the @keyWord{linkedService};
@end itemize
@end itemize

@item two possible tags for this level:
@itemize @bullet
@item @indicize{allowed}: if the previous tag was @keyWord{input}. It represents a possible value that can assume the input.
This is an optional parameter and each @keyWord{input} may have more than one @keyWord{allowed} tags.
The only attribute for this tag is:
@itemize @minus
@item @indicize{value}: the allowed value.
@end itemize
@item @indicize{linkedInput}: if the previous tag was @keyWord{linkedService}.
It represents the association of a input of this service with one input of the service to recall.
Every input of the service to recall must have an association.
It permits to share the value of an input of the described service with an input of the service to call. Attributes for this tag are: 
@itemize @minus
@item @indicize{from}: tthe name of the input of the described service from which take the value;
@item @indicize{to}: the name of the input of the service to call; 
@item @indicize{value}: used alternatively to the @keyWord{from} attribute, it specifies the value to be set for the input named in the @keyWord{to} attribute. 
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end enumerate

An example of a @keyWord{DomoDevice} for a lamp:

@float Example,ex:ex1
@example
<device description="energetic saving lamp"
 id="0" manufacturer="pholips"
 postionDescription="on the bedside table beside the bed"
 serialNumber="xxxxxxxxx" tech="KNX" type="lamp"
 url="http://www.thiswebservice.it/service">
 <service description="Get the status"
  output="BOOLEAN" outputDescription="The value"
  name="GET_STATUS" prettyName="Get status" />
 <service description="Set the status"
  name="SET_STATUS" prettyName="Set status">
  <input description="The value" name="status"
   type="BOOLEAN">
   <allowed value="TRUE" />
   <allowed value="FALSE" />
  </input>
  <linkedService id="3" service="setPower"
   url="http://www.otherwebservice.it/service">
   <linkedInput from="status" to="power" />
  </linkedService>
 </service>
</device>
@end example
@caption{A @keyWord{domoDevice} example for a lamp.}
@end float

In @ref{ex:ex1} is described a @keyWord{domoDevice} lamp produced by “pholips” and that it is located bedside table beside the bed. It’s of the @keyWord{KNX} technology and is of type @keyWord{lamp}. The lamp is managed by the @keyWord{web service} @keyWord{http://www.thiswebservice.it/service}.
The lamp offers two services: to get and set its state using a boolean value. The boolean value can be @keyWord{TRUE} or @keyWord{FALSE}.
When is invoked the service to set status, it is also called the service named @keyWord{setPower} of the @keyWord{domoDevice} managed from the @keyWord{web service} @keyWord{http://www.otherwebservice.it/service} with @keyWord{id} @keyWord{3}.
The value used as input for the described service (@keyWord{status}) is also used as input value for the service to call (@keyWord{power}).
This means that if it it is invoked the service @keyWord{setStatus} of the @keyWord{domoDevice} with @keyWord{url} @keyWord{http://www.thiswebservice.it/service"} and with @keyWord{id} @keyWord{0} using as input the value @keyWord{TRUE}, it is also called the service @keyWord{setPower} of the @keyWord{domoDevice} with @keyWord{url} @keyWord{http://www.otherwebservice.it/service}, and with @keyWord{id} @keyWord{3} using as input the same value.

@subsection @keyWord{domoMessage}
	
The @indicize{domoMessage} sub-language has the role to create a simple, compact and effective mechanism to represent the interactions between the @keyWord{domoDevice} without take care about underlining technologies.
@keyWord{domoMessage} is also represented through a wide and little deep tree with maximum 2 levels: 
@enumerate
@item @indicize{message}: it opens the tag that it describes the @keyWord{domoMessage} and it contains the following attributes:
@itemize @bullet
@item @indicize{message}: the body of the message, typically the name of the service to call;
@item @indicize{messageType}: the type of message. It can be:
@itemize @minus
@item @indicize{COMMAND}: if it is be a  service to execute;
@item @indicize{SUCCESS}: it is used as response of a @keyWord{COMMAND} message. It reports the success of the call. In this case the attribute @keyWord{message} can contain value of the answer of the execution of the service;
@item @indicize{FAILURE}: it is used as response of a @keyWord{COMMAND} message. It reports the failure of the call. In this case the attribute message can contain error code;
@item @indicize{UPDATE}: it’s a notification of the change of the state of a value of an @keyWord{input} of a @keyWord{service} of a @keyWord{domoDevice}. 
@end itemize	 
@item @indicize{receiverId}: the identifier of the receiving @keyWord{domoDevice} of the message;
@item @indicize{receiverURL}: the @keyWord{URL} of the @keyWord{web service} that contains the @keyWord{domoDevice} requested;
@item @indicize{senderId}: the identifier of the sender @keyWord{domoDevice} of the message;
@item @indicize{senderURL}: the @keyWord{URL} of the web service that contains the @keyWord{domoDevice} that sendes the message;
@end itemize
@item @indicize{input}: if message type is @keyWord{COMMAND}, it represents a value to be sent as input of the service to call. Otherwise, if message type is @keyWord{UPDATE}, it represents a new value of the state of a device. This tag is optional and every tag message can have more @keyWord{input} tag. The attributes for this tag are:
@itemize @bullet
@item @indicize{name}: the name of the @keyWord{input};
@item @indicize{type}: the data type of the @keyWord{input};
@item @indicize{value}: the value of the @keyWord{input};
@end itemize
@end enumerate

An example of @keyWord{domoMessage} in order to turn on one simple lamp is:

@float Example,ex:ex2
@example
<message message="SET_STATUS" messageType="COMMAND"
 receiverId="1"
 receiverURL="http://www.otherwebservice.it/service"
 senderId="0"
 senderURL="http://www.thiswebservice.it/service">
 <input name="status" type="BOOLEAN"
  value="TRUE" />
</message>
@end example
@caption{A @keyWord{domoMessage} example for request a service.}
@end float

This example shows how to execute the service @keyWord{SET_STATUS} on the @keyWord{domoDevice} with web service @keyWord{http://www.thiswebservice.it/service} and @keyWord{id} @keyWord{1}. The service has an @keyWord{input} of type @keyWord{boolean} with value @keyWord{TRUE}. After the execution of the called service, if no errors was found, the middleware creates a @keyWord{message} of type @keyWord{SUCCESS}:

@float Example,ex:ex3
@example
<message message="TRUE" messageType="SUCCESS"
 receiverURL="http://www.thiswebservice.it/service"
 receiverId="0" senderId="1"
 senderURL="http://www.otherwebservice.it/service" />
@end example
@caption{A response @keyWord{domoMessage} example.}
@end float


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c %**end of DomoML
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
